Hello everyone, welcome to Master-to-Teach step-by-step guide. In this video, you will learn project estimation in software engineering, Kokomo models and its hierarchies, basic Kokomo model and its modes of development, how to calculate effort, development time, staff size, and productivity of software development using the basic Kokomo models in three different modes of development. I will try my best to explain step by step. If you haven't subscribed to our channel, please click on the subscribe button and subscribe to our YouTube channel. The overall goal of project planning is to establish a parametric strategy for controlling, tracking, and monitoring a complex technical project so the result gets done in time with quality. The estimation of resources, costs, and schedules for the software engineering efforts requires experience, access to good historical information, the courage to commit to quantitative predictions when qualitative information is all that exists. The estimation carries inherent risks, and these risks lead to uncertainty. For the project estimation, project scope must be understood, elaboration or decomposition is necessary, historical metrics are very helpful, at least two different techniques should be used, like past or similar project experience, conventional estimation techniques such as tax breakdown and effort estimate, empirical models, automated tools, functional point, which we learned in the previous tutorial, LOC, lines of code, which we are going to learn in this tutorial, COCOMO models. To estimate the cost of the project is one of the most challenging jobs for the software engineer. One of the best ways to calculate the cost of the project is COCOMO. COCOMO stands for Constructive Cost Model. It is based on lines of code, LOC, where project estimation is done based on the total lines of code required to develop the system. That is, size of the system defines the cost of the project. COCOMO was first developed by Barry Bowen in 1981 as a model that is used to estimate the effort, cost, development time, average staff size, productivity, etc. It is a hierarchy of software cost estimation models. It consists of three hierarchies, increasingly detailed and accurate forms. Number one, basic COCOMO model. Number two, intermediate COCOMO model. Number three, detailed COCOMO model. We will learn basic COCOMO model. Basic COCOMO model, it estimates the software roughly and quickly. It is mostly useful for small to medium-sized software. There are three modes of development, organic, semi-detached, and embedded. We use these three different modes of development to calculate the project effort, development time, average staff size, productivity according to different criteria, which are as follows. Basic model equation, effort is equal to A multiplication of 1000 lines of code KLOC to the power B, which units is person months. Development time is equal to C multiplication effort to the power D, which units is months. Average staff size is equal to effort divided by development time, which units is persons. Productivity is equal to KLOC divided by effort, which units is KLOC per person month. Where A, B, C, and D are the constants, whose values for different modes of development are as follows. Now let's go through the example of COCOMO model numerical equation. Suppose that a project was estimated to be 4 million lines of code. calculate effort and time for each of the three modes of development. In this way, we can estimate the effort, development time, staff size, and productivity of software development as a software engineer, which will be very helpful data for the decision making. I hope you learned from this video tutorial. If you have any questions or comments, please make sure to leave a comment in the comment section below. Also, please be sure to like this video and subscribe to my channel if you haven't already. Thank you very much for watching. Check us out for more in IT tutorial and guide on website master2ts.com and we will see you again soon. Bye.